You mentioned poker playing. Was there a fair
amount of poker playing? Well, you know, I never
did gamble myself, but some of the boys did. Of
course, that goes on in every kind of society. Once
in a while, they'd get caught, and that was it when
they got caught. Well, I asked somebody about
working in school, and somebody told me about
somebody that he knew They worked his way through
school the last two years with a pair of dice. Well,
that's right. A lot of them do. These boys got
allowances, you know, and their parents would
send them so much allowance every month. So this
allowance would come in. I knew an old boy from my
hometown there. He got an allowance every month.
His daddy was a banker, and he got a pretty good
allowance
every month. Boy, in two or three days, that
allowance was gone. He was a great, he rolled eyes,
he'd do anything. So then I remember one time he got
broke and he got the job selling pies. He was up
there in Mitchell Hall selling his pies. So he went
around, you know, and he got into a crap game up
there and he lost all his pies. Who was he selling
pies for? himself, trying to make a little money.
Where'd he get them? Did he buy them in Bryan or
something? I don't remember where he got those
pies. I don't remember where he got those pies.
Well, he'd buy the whole pie and sell it in slices
then. No, he'd just sell the pie. And another thing
they used to do was, I never knew what apricot pie
tasted like until I got to be a sophomore.
So that was the favorite cushion, we called
cushions. as a favorite cook, apricot pie. So
we got maybe apricot pie maybe once or twice a week.
So they'd come in, we'd have apricot pie, and the
chef would say, all right, fish, bring that pie
down here. So he'd tell some fish, he said, now, I
want you to get this pie out of the mess hall and
bring it up to my room. So I caught some old fellow,
some old boy up there one time. He had about 25 or 30
pies in his trunk.
He'd store them away in his trunk. So we'd have our
job then would be Smuggle this pie, put it in your
blouse, you know, and smuggle it out of the mess
hall. Of course, there's an old Army sergeant. He
was an old Sergeant Foster. I remember that. He'd
just straight in there, you know, and he'd be there
at the mess hall door. He'd see something, notice
something, and he'd come here. Come here. He'd
just reach in and unbutton his reach and take that
pie. Yeah, you mean you put the whole pie in your
bluff. Sure, sure. They'd just take it up to the
room. Then at night, when you see this
upperclassman, he'd invite a few of his friends
in. They'd have a snack, a pie snack. I never knew
what apricot pie tasted like until I got to see it.
But they had it all the time you were there as a
freshman, but you never got it. Then you used to
have what's called a prune race. They gave us a lot
of prunes, I guess, to keep us kind of regulated,
you know, physically. Nobody seemed to care much
for prunes, but I happened to like prunes. I always
have liked prunes. So they'd come in, usually
Saturday night we'd get prunes. They'd come in,
you know, and they'd say, well, nobody eats prunes
tonight. So we're going to have a prune race. So...
the upperclassman down at this end of the table,
he'd pick out a freshman, his freshman, and the
other guy, he'd pick out his freshman. And when the
meal was finished, nobody leaves the table now.
When the meal was finished, well, then they'd give
each one of us a bowl of prunes and give us a
toothpick. And whichever one got the prunes
finished first, he won. Well, if you If you won for
your upperclassman, then the other
upperclassman, he'd work you over. And then if you
lost by the one you lost for, he'd work you over. So
you couldn't win either way. What was the
toothpick for, picking up the prunes? Yeah, you'd
pick up prunes with a toothpick and stick them in
your mouth, and the one cleaned up his dish. Well, a
big bowl of prunes, enough for 12 men, you know, two
bowls, enough for six men to eat. You ate the whole
bowl. We'd have to eat it, yeah. I meant you were
regular for a couple days.
Another thing that happened funny, I was walking
post over one night. See, we had the artillery down
there, and we had the horse cavalry, and we had the
Sigma Corps, and we had the Air Corps. So the old
Foster Hall used to quarter the battery. The
battery was quartered in Foster Hall. So I was in
the infantry. I was nothing to them. So they'd send
a boy from the infantry, a blue catcord on the cat,
or some other organization, some other company,
you know, into this Foster Hall. Those artillery
boys give you a hard time. But you know how old
Foster Hall, you ever seen Foster Hall? Only
pictures. Well, it's built in two wings, and you
had a rotunda. up four floors, four floors up. They
had a rotunda, and each round, each one of these,
they had banister ratings, and it didn't clear up
the top of the ceiling. So you had to walk from one
wing to the other. So I was over there one night
walking post in Foster Hall, and the thing was that
when the Sentinel walked come in the open, you see,
for those boys up there in the battery, they'd get a
big GI can full of water and get up on the top floor.
And when you went, they'd come in the open there,
they'd let you have that can, that GI can full of
water. So I was over there one night walking post,
and I was pretty careful. I was always looking when
I went by. We had an old commandant down there we
called Bull Muller. Old Bull. Oh, he just scared to
death. He had those steely blue eyes, you know. The
story was he'd been over a bunch of niggers all his
life. And he was rough. I don't mean anything. He
was rough. And he just scared these freshmen to
death, you know. He'd just take that rifle and
swing it up there and look at it. And I had to always
pardon him. Went with him and he'd look at it, you
know, and he'd just nod to that sergeant. And that
meant you got around to it. So you'd take in a
number, your name, and your company, and so forth.
So he came in there and it was raining that night and
he had on one of these old ponchos like this. like
these old officers used to wear. So he came up, and I
came to present arms. He says, put your fourth
general order, Senator. I stopped just outside of
that rotunda. See, an old bull, he was a little
outside of me. So I started spitting that general
order out. And boy, the first thing I heard was,
shh, here comes that water. And it missed me, but it
just hit old Bull full blast. He shook that old
poncho, and he had one of these old campaign hats,
you know, with an officer's hat card on it. He shook
his poncho, and he looked up, you know, I just wet
him all over. He looked up, went up, he whirled
around, he started up the stairs, and he got about
halfway. And I guess he figured, oh, he knew then he
couldn't find out who it was. He didn't have a
chance. So then the next day, the colonel got up and
read a general order in the mess hall. The entire
battery was campus for a month. Everybody in the
foster halls was campus for a month.
We used to have a lot of fun. Oh, yeah, that hell of a
lot. Then another kid down there, he was a country
boy, you know, and he was very ambitious. We used
to... A fella get too ambitious, you know, we'd
give him a hard time. That is, we'd play lots of
tricks on him. They used to have these old bellhop
uniforms. We called them, you know, days gone by
with these big insignia on them. So we got... a hold
of this old boy. His name, I believe his name was
Green, I forget now. But anyway, they got a hold of
this old boy and they told him, he says, you know,
Green, you're doing line in this military and the
first thing you know, you're going to be a
corporal. So, of course, that went over big with
him. So then they got one of these old bellhop
uniforms and And
he sewed one of these big chevrons, you know, like
they used to wear it, covered carpal chevrons on
his sleeve here. And I told him, and I says, we got
some upperclassmen in on it too, see. And we told
him, and I said, Green, you're going to be color
carpal. There's no such thing as a color carpal.
You're going to be color carpal here. for this
regiment. And he says, but there's one
stipulation. He says, you're going to have to earn
this color corporal. You're going to have to get
out and do guard duty on the main drag, I mean, on the
military walk every Sunday afternoon. And he
says, your duty is going to be to stop every car that
comes along and search the car for liquor. There's
liquor coming on this campus. You know what that
means, liquor on the campus. So he fell for it. We
used to have these ministers, various ministers
that come down every Sunday, you know, to preach
various denominations. So they had an
Episcopalian, I think he's a right reverend or
something. And so old Prexy, that was old Dr.
Brazell, he was out on a Sunday afternoon showing
him around the campus, you know. So here this old
boy, he was out there with his gun, you know, around
the flagpole and Walking around, he stopped the
car and coming up to old Prexy's car. Of course, old
Prexy had a shopper. So he told him, he said he
wanted to inspect the car for liquor. He had orders
to inspect the car for liquor. So old Prexy, he
wanted to know what that meant. So he finally told
him, he says, you've been duped, son, so you're
going back to your room. And of course, it
embarrassed him around this preacher.
But he sent the old boy home back, and it finally
soaked in what the deal was. We had a lot of fun. We
had more fun than they have now. We had the junior
band. They don't have that anymore, I guess. I
don't think they do. It varies from year to year
what they do have. I believe they still have the
senior ring dance. and they have a...
I don't think you call it a senior banquet. I think
the former students have a banquet of some kind for
all the graduating seniors, and they try to get
them to join the Association of Former Students
and things like that.
When I was there, they had three dances. There was a
Thanksgiving hop, the RV hop, And the final bowl,
that's three hops. And on various Saturday
nights, you know, they had the Aggieland Six. They
had a good orchestra.
Who played in the Aggieland Six? Was that students
or faculty? No, students. It was made up of
students. You remember this fellow Bartlett?
That was Saul Bartlett that was retired as a
four-star general in the Air Corps? Wasn't it
Bartlett? No, let's see what it was. He was a junior
when I was a senior. And if I remember it right, I
believe he paid the trombone or something. But he
was in that orchestra, the old one. I don't know
whether I may have the name wrong. But anyway, he
wound up a four-star general in the Air Corps. They
gave him a big review down there sometimes. Oh, and
I see that he was down there
some time ago. I wouldn't be as sure about that. Did
you have any favorite instructors? Well, we had a
lot of unfavorites. Well, but... What kind did you
have as unfavorites? Well, I guess they used to say
the fourth year of fish chemistry was always the
hardest. That's a fact. You'd see seniors with
leather putts on, boots, going over there and
taking that first year of chemistry. You want a
real story? Yeah. A little life to it? Sure. You
don't mind the words, the language? No, no. Well,
we had a function down there that we used to call, we
used to call the Piss Mount. And that was, that
started on the first day of December and lasted
until we went home for Christmas. So, uh, They'd
hang a number on a fella's door. That was just a
freshman. They'd hang a number on a fella's door.
And he used to be the... In
other words, he was the rain for this Pismount that
night. So it was held between Tattoo and Taps. So I
remember I saw a light. He was from my hometown. And
they hung it on old Saul Wright's door. Then that
happened in Milner Hall, too, when I was a
fisherman. So old Saul, he said, well, he said,
everybody's coming out now in sidearms,
stripped naked, very naked, stark naked, in
sidearms, and dressed caps. And he says, shoes,
russet shoes. And that's all we had on. So we'd form
out there, and then they had what they called the
flaming fist pot bearer, which was an old chamber
pot with some kerosene in it or something. And
they'd rag and they'd light this, and then they had
an escort for the and they'd march down before we
lined up in formation. They'd march down this
line, you see, formation. And then the master of
ceremonies, that's what I was trying to think
about. Old Saul, he was the master of ceremonies.
This old prof we had down there, they called him
Squirrel Tooth Moore. He had buck teeth, and his
teeth had always shone, and we called him Squirrel
Tooth Moore. His name was Moore. So, old Saul, he
was a master of ceremony, so old Saul, that night,
he got down and delivered a prayer up to Santa Claus
says, when you come with your bag, he says, oh,
Santa Claus, when you come with your bag, he says,
for God's sakes, pick up old Square Tooth Moore and
take him out here and dump him in the fish tank.
so old Prexy had got wind of it some way I don't know
and he and old Sergeant Smart he was a very straight
military sort of a guy you know had snow white hair
and always wore a black suit and a black bow tie and a
white shirt and old Prexy did the same thing he had a
black suit always a black suit black hat and a bow
tie black bow tie and so they just happened to
Somebody put them wise, you know. So they just
happened to be coming up the top of the flight. This
thing was up on the third floor. And they just
happened to be getting up there to the top floor
about the time old Saul was asking Santa Claus to
drop old squirrel two more in the fish tank. So old
Prexy, he just tapped him on the back. And I was
pretty close by. He just tapped him on the back, and
he says, get up from there, young man. And old Thaw
looked down, and he saw those black shoes, you
know. And he just come up kind of slow. And old
Praxey kind of grabbed him and shook him a little.
And he says, young man, he says, you know what
you've been doing? And he said, old Thaw, he
stammered out yesterday. He turned around to old
Sergeant Smart, and he says, Sergeant, he says,
this is the most sacrilegious. He looked at us all,
you know, naked. He says, this is the most
sacrilegious thing I've ever witnessed. I didn't
know such things could happen in this school. And
he says, who's responsible for this? The old
sergeant, he didn't know anything. So he says, all
of you get to your rooms. So we skedaddled. Boy, we
couldn't get there fast enough. And Pinky Hudson,
he was the company commander. He roomed down in the
corner room for me. So old Pecksey, he turned
around, he charged down there and opened the door.
He didn't even stop to knock. He says, Captain
Hudson, do you know what's been going on out here?
And old Pinky, he kind of stammered around. Of
course he knew, but he didn't say anything. He
said, I'm a good man to jerk those three buttons off
your shirt right now at this instance. He said, you
report to me tomorrow. So he left. But that was the
funniest thing, you know. We had a big laugh on
that. That was the funniest thing. We had lots of
fun. That's the old days, boy. That's what went on
down there. Did you ever get any stories like this?
No, but that was a nightly occurrence then from the
1st of December. From the 1st of December until, I
don't know, maybe I shouldn't be talking this.
Hell, they might want to kick me out of the college.
Oh, I doubt that. But those things, you know, are
stamped on my memory of those days. And the junior
banquets, you know, we had that junior banquets We
had lots of fun then. I noticed in looking at the
Longhorn for your senior year that you were in the
Saddle and Sirloin Club. And that's what, a club
for animal husbandry majors? Yeah. It was
anybody, agricultural students, you see. I went
down there and I signed up for civil engineering.
That's what my dad sent me down there. So I attended
classes for a while. About two weeks, I think it
was. And I saw that I'd never be an engineer. I'm not
good enough in math. I never did good enough. So I
switched over to agriculture. I saw if I wanted to
stay there. So I switched over to agriculture. And
I was interested in that more than I was anything. I
always liked it. I liked farming. I liked farming
and I liked ranch life and like that. So I finished
as an A.H., And they didn't have all this stuff they
have now. We had animal husbandry. We had dairy
husbandry. We had horticulture. And that was
about it. And then agricultural education. Were
there several organizations that the students
could belong to? I know that you belong to the
Saddle and Sirloin Club. Were there other kind of
clubs that you belonged to other than hometown
clubs? Well, we had our hometown clubs, yeah. We
had our hometown clubs, Houston clubs, and Dallas
clubs, and so forth. But otherwise, there wasn't
much. Any kind of social organizations? Well,
they had the masons. And some of the boys down there
belonged to the masons and all. The social life, I
guess you would think now, is rather limited on
that. It's just kind of a filly. What we kind of made
our own social life. We got along pretty good. Go
back to the instructors. You indicated that the
chemistry department was kind of about the least
favorite of all, I guess. Well... I don't know. I
passed the freshman chemistry in flying colors. I
met my Waterloo in the organic chemistry, and I had
to take that over twice. But it seemed that the
freshman chemistry, more freshmen failed in
freshman chemistry than any other one thing. I
don't know why it was. But the old squirrel tooth,
he was a good instructor. He wasn't anything like
it. We just... We had a nickname, you know, for
nearly all those, like old Script Mitchell, we
called him Script Mitchell.
We had another old instructor down there we called
Beowulf. He was always talking about Beowulf. He
must have been in the English department then. He
was in the English department, yeah. Had a big
bunch of fuzzy hair standing all up, you know. Some
of them were characters, those old props. I
believe some of them still are. Yeah. I thought
they'd teach you school that way. He gets kind
of...
Well, I guess he gets away from everything, the
boys, and it kind of makes him... He's kind of odd in
some respects, yeah. You mentioned in talking
about this piss mouth that the president came in,
went to the company commander's door and
threatened to... rip off his three buttons that
night, which brings up an interesting point. Did
both the president and the commandant have the
authority to
downgrade a student in the military? Oh, yeah. In
other words, either one of them could have done it.
Sure, anybody could have done it. Oh, I got busted.
They made me color sergeant down there, and I got
busted. Color sergeant. And then the old Major
Morris busted me. And the reason I got busted was
that I was going out for wrestling, and then I was
going out for football, and I got one of these
ambitious boys in my company to sub for me, see. And
so the thing dragged on for a while, and I didn't,
uh, I wasn't too eager to change over anyway. I
didn't care. I didn't care too much about it. And,
uh, old Major Morris called me up when I found a red
slip in my mailbox to report to the commandant. So I
went over there and old Major Morris,
he says, I don't think it's fair that you wear the
chevron and the other boy carry the flag, do you? I
said, no, I don't believe it is. So I got reduced
back to sergeant. What
was the general attitude of the students towards
Prexy Bazell and to the commandant? Did they like
him? Did they like him or did they dislike him?
Well, Prexy, Dr. Bazell made a fine. He was a fine
college president. He did a lot for that school. He
was a fine college president. We all liked Prexy.
Yeah, we liked him. We got along with him all right.
I remember I was going down the sidewalk one day,
and I met Prexy. And
I says, how do you do, Dr. Goodell? So he went on by
and stopped me and says, He called me and said,
Freshman. He knew I was a freshman. He says,
Freshman. I stopped. He said, Come here. He says,
Don't you know how to speak to me? I said, Well, sir,
I just stammered. I couldn't say anything too
scary. He says, From now on, when you meet me, he
says, I'm the president of A&M. I'm the president
of the college. He says, when you meet me, you
salute me, like you do in Oxford. I said, yes, sir.
We all saluted Brexit when we met him. I didn't know
that. I hadn't been there long. I didn't know that.
I'm interested to hear that, because I would not
have thought that you would salute anybody other
than a military officer. Oh, yeah, we saluted
Brexit. I suppose you'd salute the president of
the United States, wouldn't you? Well, he, in
effect, is the commander-in-chief of the
military. Well, he's out of uniform. Well, Prexy,
he was the commander-in-chief, in effect, of the
college. See, everything, anything, when a
fellow got canned, well, it had to go through
Prexy. He was the one that put the final lash on the
tree. But as far as busting you from military rank,
the commandant could do that on his own, or the
president could do it on his own. Well, they
wouldn't have busted the senior, because that was
out of the question to have busted the senior. I
don't know what they'd done to him, but that old
Prexy, he was in a kind of a rage then, you know.
working under impulse. He was so put out with this
thing that had been going on, he just thought it was
terrible, see, just terrible. He just never had,
he couldn't imagine, he says, Sergeant Smart, I
can't imagine that anything like this would go on
in an institution of learning.
And
you mentioned two different commandants, Morris
and Muller, I believe. Were they both about equal,
or did the students like one better than the other?
Well, now Morris wasn't exactly the commandant. I
think Ike Ashburn was the commandant at that time.
But Morris was the head of the military. He was a
major in the military. He had charge of the
military end of it, see. In other words, he was a
ranking officer, and they had several officers
down there, one down to captain, one down to
lieutenant. But he was ranking, so he had the... In
other words, he was the commandant. He had charge
of the commandant, the military part of it. He had
the right to bust you just like that. That's right.
I remember somebody else had told me that somebody
got the idea that it'd be good to have a civilian
commandant. And that's when they made Ashburn,
gave him the title of commandant. Yeah, he was
commandant. And then I believe at one time he was
also dean of men, I think. But
heretofore, they'd always had a military... Old
Bull Muller was a colonel. He was a full colonel.
And he was a commandant there before Ike Ashburn.